---
title: Strobr
image: strobr.jpg
links: 
- title: App Store
  url: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/strobr-scope/id1330331187
- title: Github Repo
  url: https://github.com/lachm/strobr
---

Strobr is a camera-based stroboscope app that relies on the iPhone's variable framerates to measure the frequencies of cyclical processes. A traditional stroboscope flashes bright lights at a specific frequency that can be easily matched to a rotational frequency, like that of a car wheel, using human persistence of vision. This allows the rotational speed to be measured without mechanical interference. Strobr varies the framerate instead, allowing it to measure electrical light frequencies, bright environments, and other processes that a traditional stroboscope cannot. It is also more convenient to carry around and can be used without annoying other people around you. This app was built with two friends at the Fall 2017 Pennapps and won top 30 there. I contributed the concept, UI, and some camera code.

I came up with the idea for a camera based stroboscope while brainstorming right after the opening ceremony of Pennapps Fall 2017. Lincoln and Lachlan wanted to build a stroboscope after seeing William Osman's youtube video about them. I had recently seen the Slow Mo Guys behind the scenes video explaning high speed camera operation and frame rates, so after hearing about what a stroboscope was, I thought it would be much easier to "strobe" the camera shutter rather than strobing the lights. We were then able to find an apple API that allowed apps to dynamically set the video framerate and exposure time, which turned it into the easiest idea to implement that we could think of then. I unfortunately had to leave before we could start implementing things, as I had an ACT test in the middle of the hackathon (apparently I'm not great at scheduling things). When I came back, they had already implemented the dynamic frame rates, RPM display, and gesture controls. In the end, I added some code to increase the range of usable framerates, improves image brightness, and continuously autofocus, as well as polished the UI and added a help screen. We got into the top 30 in the first round of demos, but our judge in the top 30 was Quora founder Charlie Cheever, and I'm not sure he got the usefulness of the app - probably not helped by the fact that all we had to demo it with was an MLH sticker taped to a motor.
