---
title: KLE-Render
image: kle-render.png
links:
- title: Website
  url: http://kle-render.herokuapp.com/
- title: Github Repo
  url: https://github.com/CQCumbers/kle_render
---

KLE-Render is an online tool that creates more realistic visualizations of custom keyboard layouts. It has been widely adopted by the relatively small custom keyboard building community; the service handles hundreds of orders daily, and the vast majority of custom keycap set designs posted on the internet today use its renders (at least initially). The service works by stretching, tinting, and compositing 3D renders of individual keys. The backend was written in Python using Flask and PIL, while the base images were created with Solidworks and Blender Cycles. Writing and maintaining it has been a great experience both in learning new technologies and in working with the custom keyboard community.

The tinting is done by keeping the L component of the L\*a\*b\* base image and modifying the a and b components with an algorithm based on the desired plastic color (as measured with a photospectrometer). The idea for this site sprang from my experiences advertising a Lego Classic Space themed keycap set design I created in 2015. After creating initial mockups in keyboard-layout-editor, I partnered with Oobly on geekhack to continue to develop the set, and initially he did the renders. However, the process of rendering layouts was either slow and expensive, or very unrealistic - keyboard-layout-editor, a popular tool for designing custom keyboards, could only render simple rounded rectangles for keys, so it was often a complete guess what custom colors and key shapes would actually look like, and unless you had a partner, more realistic renders cost at least 50 dollars per image and had long waiting times, making them affordable only for those designing sets for group buys, rather than for one-off customs. I wanted to create something in between - a service that could quickly generate arbitrary key layouts realistically enough to accurately visualize colors and shapes as they really appeared, but without the computational expense of true 3D renders. My approach was then to 3D model each keycap profile and render them realistically from a consistent angle and lighting environment. These images could then be stretched (using 9-region slicing), tinted (using a realistic color tinting algorithm based on Lab color), and appropriate text applied, before compositing them together to create a . Though not the most complicated project I have ever tackled, it was an immediate success within its niche - the site receives several hundred hits a day (it does have a very limited audience) and maybe 90% of early stage keycap set group buys in the world now use mockups made with this tool - just browse reddit.com/r/keycapdesigners
