---
title: Grifbot
image: grifbot.png
links:
- title: Facebook Page
  url: https://www.facebook.com/grifchatbot/ 
- title: Github Repo
  url: https://github.com/CQCumbers/grifbot 
---

Grifbot is a deep learning powered facebook messenger chatbot that imitates the dialogue of the character Grif from the popular internet show *Red vs. Blue*. It is based on a recurrent neural network I developed with Python and Keras, and was trained on transcripts of the first 13 seasons of the show, which I scraped from an online fan site. The chatbot takes messages through the facebook messenger API, runs them through the model, and responds with a plasuible Grif line. While the model can be slow and not very coherent, this is all somewhat in character for Grif, and the results are frequently hilarious. Making Grifbot has been a great way to apply my deep learning knowledge to a challenging but entertaining, if not particularly useful, topic.

This was a fun recent project for actually putting into use my recently acquired knowledge of building recurrent neural networks. While I had had fun practicing the use of convolutional image classification models on past kaggle competitions, I wanted to make something real, and had just learned the basics of recurrent neural networks and LSTMs. A very cool demo I had seen used character embeddings to vectorize the works of Neitschze, and a recurrent network to predict more text character by character (based on a hidden state built up using the preceding 64 characters). Inspired by this, I built a very similar model in Keras and Python, and used it to predict, character by character, dialogue from the popular internet show red vs blue (the scripts for which I had scraped from an online wiki). I then integrated this into a simple flask app that seeded my deep learning model with messages from facebook messenger, and returned the predicted responses from a certain character in the show (grif). This allows fans to pretend to interact with this character as if he were on facebook, and to receive in-character responses to their messages to him. By feeding a hidden vector created through predicting the previous character back into the network on its next run, it can incorporate knowledge about the past in its prediction.


